The Wise Woman builds her house but the
foolish pulls it down with her hands he
who walks in his uprightness fears the
Lord but he who is perverse in his ways
despises him in the mouth of a fool is a
rod of pride but the lips of the wise
will preserve them where no oxen are the
trough is clean but much increase comes
by the strength of an ox a faithful
witness does not lie but a false witness
will utter lies a scoffer seeks wisdom
and does not find it but knowledge is
easy to him who understands go from the
presence of a foolish man when you do
not perceive in him the lips of
knowledge the wisdom of the prudent is
to understand his way but the folly of
fools is deceit fools market sin but
among the upright there is favor the
heart knows its own bitterness and a
stranger does not share its joy
the house of the wicked will be
overthrown but the tent of the upright
will flourish there is a way that seems
right to a man but it's end is the way
of death even in laughter the heart may
sorrow and the end of mirth may be grief
the backslider in heart will be filled
with his own ways but a good man will be
satisfied from above the simple believes
every word but the prudent considers
well his steps
a wise man fears and departs from evil
but a fool rages and his self-confident
a quick tempered man acts foolishly and
a man of wicked intentions is hated the
simple inherit folly but the prudent are
crowned with knowledge the evil will bow
before the good and the wicked at the
gates of the righteous the poor man is
hated even by his own neighbor but the
rich has many friends
he who despises his neighbor sins but he
who has mercy on the poor happy is he do
they not go astray who devise evil
but mercy and truth belong to those who
devise good in all labor there is profit
but idle chatter leads only to poverty
the crown of the wise is their riches
but the foolishness of fools is folly a
true witness delivers souls but a
deceitful witness speaks lies in the
fear of the Lord there is strong
confidence and his children will have a
place of refuge the fear of the Lord is
a Fountain of Life to turn one away from
the snares of death in a multitude of
people is a king's honor but in the lack
of people is the downfall of a prince he
who is slow to wrath has great
understanding but he who is impulsive
exalts folly a sound heart is life to
the body but Envy is rottenness to the
bones he who oppresses the poor
reproaches his maker but he who honors
him has mercy on the needy the wicked is
banished in his wickedness but the
righteous has a refuge in his death
wisdom rests in the heart of him who has
understanding but what is in the heart
of fools is made known
righteousness exalts a nation but sin is
a reproach to any people
[Music]
the King's favor is toward a wise
servant but his wrath is against him who
causes shame
[Music]